In the last video we did a little bit of project setup and now we're ready to start writing some code
before we write any code whatsoever however I want to really quickly discuss how we're going to approach
and generally architect this program.
So I want to really take a look at this mockup right here and think about some of the different things
that our program is supposed to do.
So in total remember we're going add the timer and that kind of animated border around it.
I would say that our program really does kind of two different things.
First off on the core responsibilities of our program is to display that timer.
So like some element on the screen that displays some number of seconds the play button underneath it
and the pause button.
That is all stuff that is 100 percent related to running a timer now separate to that is the idea that
we want to show that animated border around the timer.
Yes the border is very tightly coupled with a timer like we want to update that border animation every
time the timer starts to tick down.
But nonetheless these really are two different parts of our program.
One is the timer.
The other is some result from that timer some effect that the timer has on our application so as we
start to think about what our program does I want you to imagine how we might write out some code to
implement this thing.
I'm going to show you a little bit of pseudocode or kind of like base code instead of a diagram to help
you understand one possible way that we might implement this timer with the border around it.
Now the code that I'm about to show you is not code at all.
It is just a series of steps.
It is not the actual implementation we're going to put together.
It is just for demonstration purposes OK.
So here's one possible implementation so we might set up an event listener to watch for click on that
start button and the start button of course is that little play button right there so we could set up
a click event listener and watch for a click on it.
And then whenever a click occurs we'll run this series of steps right here so maybe right away we can
draw a full border around the timer or like clear out the border or do something with it some like initialization
for that border animation then immediately after that we can start counting down on the timer.
So like one second will run some block of code to update our timer and maybe the border as well.
So then each time the timer starts to countdown.
We can't take a look at the border and update the animation to kind of advance it around the outside
of the circle.
In addition every time the timer counts down we might also update the text as well.
So this number right here would go from say twenty seven to twenty six twenty five and so on then we'll
take a look at the current timer and we'll say that OK if we just kind of down and the timer reaches
zero we probably have to do some kind of like cleanup stuff so maybe we need to reset the border in
some style and maybe we need to also reset something around the internal timer to get it ready for another
run so again this is just one kind of guess of a possible implementation.
The reason I'm laying this out here is I want to make a really important point.
I want you to take a look at the ordering of lines of code inside this block right here and I want you
to notice that between the two things that our program does just about every other line of code addresses
something very different inside of application.
So in other words this first line right here is related to the timer itself.
It is watching for someone to click on that start button then inside of our click event handler the
first thing we do is something about the border then the next line of code is something about the timer.
That is something about the border then something about the Timer Timer border timer.
So as we start to think about the real structure of this block of code right here we are essentially
alternating what every single line of code does inside of this block.
And that would mean that over time this would be some really challenging code to understand because
we are going to essentially change context or change what our brain has to be thinking about as we're
reading every line of code in series so rather than taking this kind of approach right here where we
have to be considering OK timer border timer border and so on.
We should instead try to isolate all the different responsibilities of our application into different
and separate blocks.
So how can we do that.
Because at the end of the day we still have to say draw the border around the timer and do the update
and so on.
Well one possible way to address this would be to use a kind of event ID style approach.
So this is the same series of actions right here or the same kind of layout but rather than having right
here something that is specifically related to updating the border maybe instead of saying hey border
go update yourself maybe our timer could instead emit some kind of event or emit some kind of notification
to the rest of our application and say hey if anyone cares at all the timer just started and then some
other part of our application can watch for that event to occur whenever that event occurs.
We can run some code to draw the border we can then start to count down the timer and then every single
time that we tick down the timer or kind of countdown we could once again emit an event that signals
that the timer has ticked in some fashion.
So then we can write some code somewhere else inside of application that watches for that event occur
and when it does we can update the border and kind of like advance it or advance that animation around
the outside the circle.
And then same thing down here as well rather than running some code that specifically says OK let's
take a look at the border and reset it.
Instead we might try to write some code that emits an event or something like that to send a signal
that the timer is all done.
And so somewhere else in cyber application we could run some code or watch for that event whenever it
occurs we could reset the border or do whatever else we want.
So again the idea here is that rather than try to write some code where we are alternating what we're
doing step by step in every line of code essentially does something totally different and unrelated
to what occurred before it.
We can instead say OK let's have one block of code right here that is 100 percent focused on one aspect
of our application.
And if some other part of our app like say the border needs to know about this stuff rather than directly
saying hey border please go update yourself.
We can instead emit an event or something like that maybe run a callback function that says OK timer
started timer ticked.
Timer is done.
And so this kind of approach right here would allow us to write some much more clear code.
We would end up with an implementation of our timer that could possibly use be reused between different
projects or for different purposes.
Beyond just updating the border in addition we would also have some implementation for updating the
border.
That wouldn't really care about whether we are having it work with a timer or some other kind of thing
like say the progress of making a network request or downloading a file or something like that.
All right.
So if this diagram doesn't make that much sense right now that's totally fine we're going gonna write
some code very quickly.
We're going to start to explore this idea and see how we can kind of really isolate the different responsibilities
inside of our program.
Now we've got a better idea of how we're going to kind of approach this.
Let's take a pause right here and start working on an implementation in the next video.